Now besides let and const,
another major feature added
with Next-Gen JavaScript with ES6 specifically
were arrow functions.
Now let's rewrite this add function down here,
and let's not use the function keyword,
but let's instead use this new arrow function syntax.
For that you have to write the function as an expression,
which you store in a variable.
So we could have our add variable.
And that can hold a function with the function keyword,
as you probably know.
But you can now also write a function,
without the function keyword, with your parameter list,
then an arrow, which you construct
by using an equals sign, and a greater than sign,
and then your function body.
And this is a valid function,
so here you can now also assign parameters, and use them,
and, for example, return it like this.
And then if you console log add two and five here like that
and we save everything, we'll see seven in the console here.
So that is something we can do, that's a new syntax,
and one obvious benefit is that it's a bit shorter.
We saved the function keyword.
Another benefit is that it has a couple of nice variations
which make it even more useful.
For example, besides this already very short syntax here,
you could also, if you just have one expression,
omit the curly braces
like this,
and then also remove the return statement
and just write this function like that.
If you only have one expression,
you can omit the curly braces, and the result of that
one expression is then automatically returned.
So there always is an implicit return statement
in front of this.
So now, this is way shorter than the function alternative,
as you can tell.
Now again, this only is available though
if you have one expression.
If you have two expressions or more
in the body of the function, you could not use
this shorter syntax.
You would need a real, normal function body
surrounded with curly braces.
Another nice variation is that if you have a function
that only takes one parameter,
let's say we have
our print output function,
and that takes output,
which is a string or a number, let's say,
using a little unit type here,
and then we console log output here.
Then, we can of course use that to call print output here
and add five and two.
But now of course from one, we can shorten this
by removing the curly braces.
I'm not really interested in the returned value
of console log, but that's also another problem
if we do return it, because, as we learned,
there is an implicit return statement.
But now, since we only have one argument, we can even omit
the parentheses around that argument.
However with that type assignment, it will then not work.
It would work like that, which works in Vanilla JavaScript
but which is not supported in TypeScript because we
omit the type assignment.
But if you would have the type assignment
in a different place, let's say with the function type
assigned to the constant, which also
gives TypeScript information about what will be stored
in a constant, then this would be a syntax we can use.
So, if we have
this setup here
and we give that type information two types
in a different place,
then we could use this more concise syntax.
Now arguably, here we don't save a lot because now
we will have to add that type assignment on our own.
But a case where we would save a lot is, for example,
if you were to reach out to a button,
which we find in the DOM maybe, and please note here
I have no button in DOM, but we can
try to find one nonetheless.
And we then add an event listener.
And now, to make sure the TypeScript does not complete
because button could be null, as it actually is here,
we can wrap this code into an if check as you learned.
And now, add an event listener to a click.
And now here, we want to pass on a function
that should be executed,
well, that can be an anonymous function here.
Just like that,
(static)
and that shows us how great arrow functions are.
That's really not a lot of code.
And, in here
we get the event object
which we now could console log like this.
Now here we don't need to specify
any function type anywhere because TypeScript knows
what add event listener will provide to us,
that this will be an event object,
so indeed TypeScript is able to infer this,
even the correct event object
based on the event we're listening to.
And hence here, we can re-take advantage
of this very short and concise syntax.
So these are some of the variations of arrow functions
and of course, I've already used arrow functions
thus far in the course.
Just wanted to make it really clear again
what they are, and what we can do with them.